Right, so now you have understood
that what a server does.
Now as a backend developer,
what's our duty that we have
to create this server?
We have to create a machine
which is able to handle
the incoming request, right?
You should be able to accept
the incoming request,
do some magical stuff on it
and send back a response.
So this is what we have to do.
Now there is one thing that
I'll be using a lot
while we are in this course, that
is these kind of diagrams.
Okay, so, so what we are going to do
is, so in order to represent that,
how, how the request response cycle
was done, so we construct two lines.
So this first line is for
the client, let's say like
we can name it as client.
The second line is let's say
for the what do you call server?
Okay, they can be third line
for database and all.
So what we can do is we can
represent it in this way.
So let's say client
sends a request right now, now
server processes the request.
So let's say that it took five
seconds, okay, it took five seconds.
So let's say five seconds
request, it took.
And after five seconds what you
can do is you can return,
you can return back the response.
So you can just read, you
can just name it as, hey,
there was a request, right?
So there was a request
made by the client.
Okay, you took five
seconds to process it.
Then, then you sent
back the response.
Okay, so you here
sent back the response.
That is whatever client needed.
And then this response, this request
response cycle was terminated here.
So basically client
closes the connection.
So client closed
the connection because you know,
this one cycle is completed.
So if client needs something it can
again send a request and response
and the cycle continues.
So this is where the client
actually close the connection.
Okay.
And yeah, there is a possibility
that client can even keep
the connection open that is
known as server sent events.
So yeah, don't worry about that.
Okay, so this diagram helps us
to visualize that
what exactly happened.
Okay, so these kind
of diagrams you will see a lot if
you are into system design
or something like that.
But yeah, again, again it's
a high level because it's
a beginner friendly course.
So I don't just want to,
you know, confuse you.
So I hope you are getting it now
with this knowledge, with this
knowledge there is little bit more
that you need to understand.
Okay.
Number one, when we talk
about this HTTP thing, okay, so
in HTTP you have to understand
that there is something
known as HTTP methods, okay.
Which includes like you have
a Get method, you have a post
method, you have a put method,
you have a path patch
method, you have a delete method.
So there are some methods
and there are something known
as HTTP status codes, which
includes one of the famous
RS404 which says not found.
So there are a lot of status codes
that you have to understand.
So a good API or a good backend
should follow these rules.
Okay?
So let's cover them one by one.
First is the HTTP methods, right?
What are, what are HTTP methods?
See, when a client
sends a request, right?
This request has something
known as HTTP method, okay?
It has some method attached to it.
For example, there can be a request
of get type, there can be a request
of post type, there can be a request
of delete type and all that.
If client wants to get some data
from the server, the client
should send a get request.
So get request is made when, when
client, when client want to read
some data or to get some data
to get some data from the server.
So this is where you make a get
request post when client want
to send some data to server.
So let me give you an example.
Okay, so for the first example that
is the get, let's say you want to
see all the tweets, See all the
tweets, or you want to Var a video,
or you want to see comments on a
video.
These all are what, these
all are get requests.
Because you can see that
these requests is something
like that you want to get something
from the server.
Post examples for post, it
can be like you want to create
a tweet, you want to upload
a video, upload a video.
Or it can be like, you know, you
create a comment,
you comment below this video that is
going to be a post request,
you create a new comment.
So these all are what,
these are post requests.
Now similar to this, similar
to this, you have something
known as patch request.
Patch is basically when,
okay, when client wants
to update, some existing data.
So when you have some existing data
and you want to update it, you can
send a patch request and delete.
When client wants to delete some
data, okay, to delete some data.
So whenever client makes a request
to the server, this request can
be a get request, a post request,
delete request, patch request.
So there is a request.
Okay, so these are the HTTP methods.
These all are what,
these are HTTP methods.
Get, post, delete, patch, put.
Okay, then, then there is something
known as HTTP status codes.
Now these were request, okay,
these, these things that we just
discussed this was related to the
request that when client sends the
request, this particular thing is,
is taken into the consideration
right now.
This part is fine.
This part is relatively very easy.
I know, Just one second.
My OCD is kicking in.
Yeah.
Now when you send a response, okay,
now when you send a response back,
the server sends some status code.
Status code is nothing
but just a number.
Okay, these are nothing, but these
are some bunch of numbers.
So I'll tell you what
these numbers means.
So while sending back the
response, the server can say
for example, Hey, 404, which
basically tells the client that
hey, the thing that you are
trying to access does not
exist, not found.
It can be a 500 internal server
error, it can be a 200.
That means everything is okay.
It can be a 401 that is unauthorized.
It can be a four or three.
It can be it can be of,
let's say 501.
It can be a 201.
So server is basically sending some
kind of numeric data to indicate
what kind of response it is.
So this status code is used
to tell what kind of response it is.
Okay, so it can be like
a successful response, it
can be an error response.
What kind of error is that?
It can be a redirect thing.
So that thing.
Okay, so let me give
you a few examples.
For example, if backend sends 200,
this means everything was okay.
If backend sends 211, it means it
was okay and something is created.
You created some resource
on the server.
If server sends 400, that
means it's a bad request.
It's a bad request.
So that means your request was bad.
If it sends a 404 it means
not found that something.
If it sends 500 it means that
there is some server error.
Server error, that server
there, there is something
wrong with the server.
So these are some status
codes which we use commonly.
And there is even more.
Like for example, there is a 301
that is for a redirect.
Okay, that is for a redirect.
So let me show you all the status
codes that are there.
So just search for HTTP status codes.
Okay, so HTTP status codes.
So you can see that it ranges
from 100 to all the way to 599.
Now if a status code starts with 1,
okay, now this is very important.
If a status code starts with one like
111-1111103 this basically means
it's an informational response.
Okay, so this is first thing.
Second, if it starts with 2.
So like that is from 200 to 299.
If it starts with 2 2,
so 2xx, this basically means
it's a success response.
Okay, then if it starts
with three, if it starts
with three, it's a redirect.
Just one second.
Yeah, so if it starts with
3xx, it's a redirect.
Let's say server wants
to redirect you to somewhere.
If it starts with four, it basically
means it's a client error.
That means you are doing some error
four or four not found.
You are trying to access
something that is not existing.
And if it starts with 5,
it's a server error.
So these are the response codes
that we are going to see.
So you can see that hey, these
two are starting with four, right?
So this, this basically indicates
that it's a client error.
This 500 starts with 5.
This is a server error.
This 200.
These both starts with 200.
This means these are
successful responses.
So this is how the server sends
an appropriate status code, which
of course as a developer you have
to set to tell the client that
what kind of response this is.
Okay, so these are your
response mechanisms.
So client sends a request along with
a HTTP method and you process it.
And while sending the response
you have to set a number, a code
which tells the client that
what kind of request is that?
Okay.